Over the last lectures you learned a lot about styling and we applied all that knowledge to create a nice
looking auth screen. Now I'll move a bit faster over the next lectures to also add some styling to find place,
share place and then also to the place we click on once we are able to find places and I want to start
in the share place view here. There we have input and we have the add button and it doesn't look super pretty,
we'll eventually add functionality to take an image here and to add a position on a map,
so I already want to lay out the view for that, I want to have a box that represents the placeholder for
the image
we will preview here, a box which represents the spot on the map I want to show and also of course still
this input line and below all of that, the add button.
Now these are all things we can build with flexbox and and the tools you learned
so let's start. For that, let's go to the shareplace component here,
right now we only got the place input component which is a nice start but not all we need,
instead I want to have an image picker, a map picker and then the place input component and then the
submit button below
all of that. That also means that the button which is included in the place input component here and which
right now is strictly tied to this text input,
it shouldn't be in there anymore because our overall form or the amount of data we gather grows and
it's not all part of the place input component,
so we'll eventually have to rebuild that too,
so back to the share place component therefore. I'll just lay it out in this one component and then we
can split it out into subcomponents,
so we probably need a view and a text that looks good,
we'll also need a text input and I want to have a button in here too, the default built-in button here.
Now with that, we got this wrapping view,
that makes sense
and I want to have some text at the bottom where I say share a place with us, something like this, below that
text,
I want to have a view that actually serves as a placeholder, just renders some rectangle for example
where we will eventually have the image preview to show the user which image he picked, below that we
want to have a button where we can say, whoops, where we add a title, that's how we use the built-in button where
we can say pick image and then I'll basically repeat this pattern here to also have a map we output here,
though this will be an interactive map later where the user can pick it's position or a button which
says locate me if the user doesn't want to pick a position here but wants to locate himself
and then below that, I want to have a text input where I have a placeholder where we can say place name,
so that the user can enter some name for the place, below that again, one other button where we have share the
place, something like that. That looks like a nice set up but I'm going to get rid of the place input
component for that because I don't need it here,
that also of course means I can remove the import up here.
So with that, let's save all of that and let's have a look at it,
to turn on hot reloading, it loads automatically and I get an error, image preview,
this doesn't work like that,
small mistake, text always has to be wrapped by a text element,
you can't put it directly into a view as I just tried.
So that's also why I left the error in,
that's really important to know and something you can easily mess up.
So I put the text into text components and restructure the code,
now let's try this again,
let's open the app again on Android, it entirely crashed,
the whole simulator is down,
so let's stick to iOS for now.
Here on share place, we see the elements and it all looks horrible,
now let me bring the Android simulator back up.
So Android's back up again, let me enter share a place here too,
this is how it looks here,
not that pretty,
so let's improve the style of that. And for that first of all, let me turn these views here, these placeholders
into placeholders,
this will eventually be exchanged later in the app for now but for now let's use them like that.
So I'll add my styles const here and use stylesheet create to create some styles and I'll just name
it placeholder and there, I want to have a border of let's say one, excuse me, border width of one, border color
of black and a background color of
this light gray.
And now I'm going to assign this to the view here around my image preview text and around the map text,
there I'll add the style property and reach out to styles placeholder.
So let me save that
and now here we got our placeholders.
Now the placeholder should be a bit bigger
so I'm also going to add some width and height,
so the width here actually should be around 80% and I'll add a height of around 150 pixels so that
we can see something, like this.
Now we already see we're getting a little bit of problems here with the space, so it's probably worth
throwing this into a scroll view,
so let me also import that here, the scroll view
and let's use scroll view instead of view to wrap the entire page.
So we do that, then we obviously can scroll this to ensure that we can reach all the content in here.
Now what would be nice would be to also still have some centering, some horizontal centering here to
start with,
so let's create this container property here again,
let's set flex to want to take all available space and keep in mind, main axis is from top to bottom
by default
so we want to center on the cross axis from left to right horizontally,
so we will set a line items to target the cross axis to center.
Let me assign this container to the scroll view which is also interesting to see if that also works
on the scroll view,
so let's reach out to styles container, save this, we get an error here.
Now the error makes sense if you think about it,
you're trying to use a flex property on a scroll view, now flex is all about distributing some limited space,
in a scroll view,
you've got infinite space but you could also argue that even with a scroll view, you always just see what's
on your screen right,
you've got limited space in that sense and you can use flex box properties on scroll view,
you just need to set this content container style prop.
So let's add content container style here
and set this to styles container,
let's remove our other style assignment here.
Now save that, reload your app and let's go to share place again
and now you get the vertical, the horizontal center here,
the same on Android.
Now with that it looks nice and we can scroll on iOS but on Android, it's broken.
Now workaround that is that we nest a view inside scroll view here,
like this and add style styles container to that.
Now if we do that and remove that container style here from outside,
now we got a working scroll view on android again
and on iOS and we got everything centered,
so now this is working as it should here.
So now let's turn our heads towards making this look a bit nicer,
let's change the styling of this text here at the top,
let's also add some margin around these buttons so that they don't sit directly below there, placeholders
and the bottom button also has some spacing to the bottom and let's fix that input.
Now let's start with the input because we already got one, so we can import our own input component,
the one we created here, our default input from and now we just have to go to the components folder
UI and use the default input,
that's the great thing about creating these reusable components,
we can, well easily reuse them.
So we just use the default input instead of text input, drop in the placeholder
and if we go back, we already got this, looks much nicer and I also like the style that it spans the full
width due to it having width 100%,
so I might even leave it like that.
Now to give the buttons some margin around them,
I will simply wrap them with a view,
so I'll add a view because we can't style the buttons directly,
I'll add a view around them and on that, I want to add some styling, so I'll name this button and add some
margin, maybe of 8, something like that and add this to the view which wraps the button,
so there I'll add style and reach out to styles button.
Let me save this and have a look at it, yeah
that looks much nicer,
let's now use that setup around all buttons here.
So using it on this locate me button here
and also on the
submit button down there or the share place button I should say. Let's save all of that and now this looks
nicer,
now we got a little bit more spacing here.
Let's also use our main text and the heading here on this well, heading at the top,
so for that, we need to import both components,
so let's import main text from
and here I go into the components folder, UI main text main text again and then let's also import
our heading text from and now also let's go into components UI and there, it's heading text heading text.
So again, reusing these components we already built and now we can simply exchange text here with main
text and then also inside there, use our heading text component to wrap the actual text with it so that
it receives both styles, heading text and our main text,
let me restructure this over multiple lines. If we now save this, we got our default main text here,
so that's really nice, it's really beautiful,
that's really, so that's really nice,
I like the look of this.
And yeah, the gray boxes, they don't add too much to the layout but keep in mind these, will be replaced
with a real image and a real map where you can pick a place,
so this is going to become nicer and look nicer.
It just doesn't look like this right now
but we'll work on that later in the course,
for now let's maybe at least use our static image
we have, the beautiful place here as a background by default so that we don't have that gray box here.
So for that, let's also import image here
and use that instead of image
preview, so here I'm going to use image. And now we need to import the image as we learned it,
so I'm importing image placeholder from
and now I just go into the assets folder and pick the beautiful place.jpeg file
and the image placeholder is now what I assign as a source on this image here,
like this.
Now if we save this, it's a bit big, isn't it?
So what we should do of course is set a width and height on the image here,
so I'll add a style and bind it to styles preview image,
we need to create that property in our stylesheet now.
So then there, I'll add preview image and set the width to 100% and the height to 100% of
the wrapping container which is our view,
the box we created, so this looks much nicer now.
So the buttons won't do anything but this looks nicer.
The map will get added eventually, we can enter a place name though we're not ready to pick up what the
user entered here,
so these will all be things we'll have to work on in the future
but we now got a nice share place set up.
Now here's a challenge for you,
split it up into multiple components
now, new components you have to create so that you for example have a component for the image preview
and the picker button, one component for both probably makes sense and also try to hook up these inputs
here,
we previously had hooked it up in the place input component which we're not using anymore but here,
you can see how such a connection process with two-way binding could look like.
So make sure to also do this and feel free to basically take the input here and put it into the old
place input component we have, just remove the button from there because we don't need it here anymore
and change this component
however it is needed to change to enable two-way binding in there.
Now that's just a challenge, I'll of course also do it together with you in the next lecture.